functioned as they should until, and would
continue to until the Farmers Home
Administration got stuck in it. Now our
philosophy here was the farmers would do it all and
nobody was going to put any money on
them. They went over here in this one in Houston
County which was a beautiful community setup,
and gave them, I think, $10,000. And
the next thing I knew, they were having a squabble
on how they were going to spend that $10,000, and
the thing blew up.
But at any rate, Bill didn't have any use for them.
And I had to have a job. And I did a little farming
back some 15 and a half years ago.
And I started digging into soils, soil
improvement and fertilizers.
And when I quit in 57, I was the recognized
authority in agriculture on the three.
Now don't anybody know as it came along.
But the war came on. By the way, the Tennessee
Valley Authority would furnish
fertilizer to any group of farmers that I would
recommend if they agreed to run demonstrations
according to the plans that I drew up.
And when I say I drew up, I'm the finest corn grower
in Nacogdoches County. I said, well, that's fine.
I'm glad to meet you. I'd like for you to run an
experiment.
Good, I will. I said, I want you to take your
fertilizer distributor and go up and down four
rows. four times with it. Then you step over here
and go up and down four rows three times. Then you
get over here and go up and down four rows two times,
and the rest of you feel just weird like you've been
doing. He thought, I'll do it. I went back over
there in the fall. Corn had been harvested. I saw
this old duck unloading some fertilizer that I had
authorized to be shipped in. He didn't remember me
from, the only one there that knew me was the county
agent. I asked him, I said, Miss, do you ever grow
any corn? Yes, sir, I'm the finest corn grower in
Nacogdoches County. Is that right? I said, have
you ever used fertilizer? Yes, sir. How much do you
use? 400 pounds to the acres, the finest
fertilizer in the world. I said, don't it burn the
stuff up? He jumped off his old lopsided wagon,
shook his finger in my face, and said, trouble you
young fellas, you don't use enough fertilizer to
draw. Fellas are listening. I said, you're so
right. I said, I'd like to see you try 600 pounds.
I'll do it. Now that sort of there
were
two
things that i swore i was going to do we've always
considered legumes as an excellent soil
improving crop
Everybody did. I was there with it enough to
believe it.
And I was going to have a legume crop planted in
every county in the state. I missed it. It was one I
couldn't get.
I was going to double the amount of fertilizer used
in Texas by 1950.
I changed my records. In 1947, I was going to double
it again
by 1950. In 1950, I was going to double it by 1955,
and we passed that again. Now that's going back to
the 1945 race. Now I have no idea what the ratio in
there is. I just haven't kept up. But the amount of
fertilizer being used has resolved to those foods
things that I did and my assistants and my helpers
and my associates are responsible for this
agricultural explosion in Texas. But, as I said,
these folks don't know I've been along, which is
all right. Remember, the dead can't live forever.
The old can't live forever. I think anybody going
back to Wright the history of agricultural
development, Texas will certainly have to
include this and who the people were that helped
make it. Well, they're not. Oh, I wouldn't say
that. I know some people that are probably maybe
getting ready to do some American cultural
history of Texas.
So, as I said, back in 1935 or 1936, I got us a
portable soil testing kit.
didn't take me long to see that these kits that were
built up in the northern states just weren't worth
a nickel in Texas.
We had different conditions, so I took off and
built my own. And the result of my work
and the work being done under Fudge in the state
chemist's lab. I can't think of the fellow's name.
Asbury? No, no, old Asbury.
No, let's let that ride.
This, I'll cut that out too.
But
Oh, I built this kit, and I would go out to this farm
and take soil samples and test them. And he
wouldn't believe them. Certainly not. That's
brand new stuff. He didn't do that. So I'd
go and take this growing cotton. I'd go get a half a
dozen leaves. off of this cotton that's just going
to make about one bale and ten acres. I'd go down
here, I'd get about a half a dozen leaves off of some
cotton that's going to make about a half a bale and
ten acres. I'd test them. Now his eyes would bug
out.
Now, I kept that up. There are a lot of interesting
stories there that come up with as you go along
through that. And in 1950,
I guess it was,
they talked the state chemist into running the
analyses with the understanding that I wrote the
recommendations.
Now, in order to get the state chemist to do that, it
took lots of doing. Because Fraps insisted there
was no way in the world you could run a soil test and
predict what happened. And he fought soil testing
with everything that he had. Well, his successor
Fudge was a little more liberal. And when I yanked
him out of his marble chair and took him out in the
country with me, I let him see what was going on. He
then decided that he would go into it, and they went
into it with the understanding that every soil
sample was a dollar, which was all right. But that
still wasn't satisfactory, so I, with another
fellow, as I said, I can't think of his name, took a
trip around the states that were using soil
testing to get their ideas. among which was
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Mississippi, Kentucky,
Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri. We came back here
and set up the laboratory we have here. I go to the
laboratory here now and see what they're doing.
It's amazing. Back in those days, we did
everything by
strong methods and awkwardness. Nowadays,
you've got these electronic machines. They'll
run the soil out now and give you analyses on that
thing there that I never dreamed of. As I said,
that's part of this thing that I mentioned way back
here. The chemistry is just boiling. And what
you're up to data in today, you're out of data on
tomorrow. And that's the way it ought to be. That's
fine. I hate to like Rip to be an old has-been, but
then I'm not going to do the fighting and the
working and the studying to stay up when I can get
out here in the garden and have a good time.
So that's another thing. And when I quit in 57, this
soil testing laboratory was another one of my
babies that was Well, it's certainly recognized
throughout the state. A lot of people use its
facilities. Yeah, we built several. We built two
or three branch
laboratories and regional laboratories. I
always thought Oklahoma had the county, and
Mississippi had the county, and I fought those.
The county doesn't have anything more to do than
run soil tests. he better fire him, and
we build those reasonable and set up the
laboratory from here, and that functioned very,
very well.
So these are really some of your most important
accomplishments while you were working for So
that's another way that answered a question
without my having to ask it. Anything else you'd
like to comment on?
Oh, I don't know. You don't know. Well... You sit
around here and talk long enough, I have some other
stuff, but then you'll have something else to do.
Oh, no, I don't have anything to do today, really.
in my living around here is the ingenuity and the
ability of the students. The radio tower on top of
Milne Hall was put in, I would say, about 19, the
summer of 1913 or maybe 14. And
one morning we woke up. And a young fellow, his name
was Cohen, rode a bicycle to and from work. And that
darn bicycle was tied to the top of that radio
tower. How in the name of common sense that bunch
got that bicycle up there, I'll never know. They
finally got it down, and I guess the fellow put it up
there is the one who brought it down. But now there
is something. That is just one thing. Well,
there's another one. If you'll notice on Milner
Hall, there's little alcoves up there. Came along
one morning going to work, and there was a shut-lit
pony in that alcove on the third floor. You
couldn't have walked him up there. How in the world
they got him up there, I'll never know. I had to...
Just sitting here, as I said, thinking there'll be
some others just as wild. You can cut it off now.
When I first came here in the spring months,
the band would meet every Sunday afternoon in the
bandstand that was out on the edge of the drill
field. And people from Brown would drive out in
their horses and buggies. And Goodman Hall was
over there as a dormitory. And boys would be
sticking out, looking at that, and just as sure as
they had one of those, one of those boys would
presumably fall out a window. They'd take their
dummy and dress him up, and when they got down to the
right point, they'd push him out. And finally, I
break up that damn chance. As
I said, back then, we organized a basketball team.
But the first thing we did in fall of 1912, I guess it
was, we organized a football team. On that
football team, we had an All-American from
Cornell. all Missouri Valley,
Iowa, all southern, center, and
South Carolina. In other words, it was made up of a
bunch of fellows that taught here that had played
football and knew the way around. But, you know, we
couldn't get with 11 men. So, well, no, we couldn't
get 11. We had two that we organized as standing
guards. With this bird, you know, at Thermopylae,
you stand up there and need not let him pass. And
their jobs were not to let anybody through. They
did nothing about football, but they're both
powerful men. And just don't let that other fellow
through. You just take care of him. And be sure you
get the man that's got the football.
The others, played and the rest of us ran the team.
Tommy Ogier was quarterback. Who was that? Tommy
Ogier. You never heard of him? No, I haven't. He
died here about three or four years ago. Well, we
went out there and played the C Company and they
thought a good chance to get even with the
professors. The half of us didn't realize they
were working fellows that had cut their teeth in
big-time football, and for a little amateur
company team to haul off and rough them up a little
bit was just asking for trouble. So the morning
after they played the C Company, there were about
15 in the hospital. And the next time we played was
the band.
And the same thing happened. I know most of the band
was in the hospital. And we weren't hurt. We were
just taking the thing in the stride. Then Charlie
Moran decided that I didn't, he says, I don't have a
game for Saturday. How about you fellas playing
Thursday or Friday? Playing the reserves, not the
first team. Now a lot of boys think it's the first
team. It wasn't the first team. Doggone it that
morning before we were going to play, our center,
Missouri Valley, had to have an appendix out. And
they had a fellow they could put out on end that had a
little sense about football but not a whole lot. So
they elected me to take that center place.
And I can assure you the fellow that was playing on
the other side was using something beside his
body. I think he had a club in his hand where it could
be over. But man, oh man, the reserves beat us five
to nothing just because that doggone replacement
of mine let the halfback on the reserve team get
outside him. And they finally brought him down on
about the five yard line, and they did put the
cross, they earned it, but we couldn't score.
Next morning, President Miller issued one of the
many foolish edicts that comes out of the
president's office. He said, in the future, no
member of the teaching staff will participate in
any hazardous or dangerous games. That is the most
foolish thing that ever happened. If you'd have
handed a football at any of them, they'd have
turned the ball like that. They wouldn't have even
touched it. Man, how wicked we took. Five to
nothing. It wasn't a bad game. But that was the
cleanest game we played. The games against the
company teams. The boys didn't use their head. But
against the reserves, it was a clean game. But they
were hitting and they were hitting hard.